Myocarditis occurs when the heart muscle becomes inflamed.
Inflammation is a response by your body’s
immune system to fight off disease.
But if an infection reaches the heart,
these disease-fighting cells enter the heart
causing inflammation and as a result,
the heart can become thick, swollen and weak.
Most of the time Myocarditis is caused
by a virus that reaches the heart.
It may also be caused by bacterial infections
or as a reaction to certain medicines.
Some people in the early stage of Myocarditis
don’t have symptoms,
while others have symptoms that often
mimic the flu or that of a heart attack.
Common symptoms include:
Chest pain
Fatigue
Rapid or irregular heartbeat
Shortness of breath, at rest or during activity
Headache, body aches, fever or sore throat
Joint pain or swelling
If you are having unexplained chest pain
and shortness of breath,
seek emergency medical help right away.
Treatment is aimed at
the cause of the problem, and may involve:
Antibiotics to fight bacterial infections
Diuretics to remove excess water from the body
Beta blockers to improve arrhythmia
Medicine to help the body fight infection,
and to control inflammation
Depending on the cause of the problem and overall health.
Some people may recover completely,
while others may have lasting heart complications.